chore(docs) refactoring row_number function (#1159)
questdb/questdb.io: docs/reference/function/window.md

---
title: Window functions
sidebar_label: Window
description: Window functions reference documentation.
---

> This page describes the available window functions.

Reviewer: nit: we could mention that we also call these functions "analytic functions". That's because the "analytic" word can be met in the error messages.

Author: Fixed in `281acb`

## row_number

> 

Reviewer: nit: would be nice to include a syntax diagram here.

> `row_number()` - assigns a sequential integer to each row in a result set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`row_number()` - assigns a row number to each row in a result set. For each partition, the row number starts with one and increments by one.
```

**Arguments:**

- `row_number` does not require arguments.

**Return value:**

Return value type is `long`.

**Description**

> `row_number()` returns values dynamically and there is no guarantee that the

Reviewer: The description doesn't specify what ORDER BY in the OVER() clause does. It also doesn't mention that both parts of OVER() are optional, i.e. all of the following examples are valid:
* `row_number() OVER()`
* `row_number() OVER(PARTITION BY symbol)`
* `row_number() OVER(ORDER BY price)`
* `row_number() OVER(PARTITION BY symbol ORDER BY price)`

rows returned will be ordered exactly the same with each execution of the query.
Hence, SQL keywords such as `OVER` and `PARTITION BY` can be used to set unique
parameters and organize the rows. `OVER` can be used to specify the set of rows
upon which the window function operates depending on the parameters input to
arrange the table in a logical manner based on the parameters.

**Examples:**

The query below uses `row_number()` with a `WHERE` clause to filter trading
records added within one day. Each group of record defined by the `symbol`
column is assigned a set of row numbers. The sequence of row number is issued
based on the `price` column. The final result is returned in an ascending order
based on the row number.

```questdb-sql

> SELECT symbol,side,price,amount, row_number()

Reviewer: nit: I'd reformat the query in the following way to make it more readable:
```sql
SELECT
  symbol,
  side,
  price,
  amount,
  row_number() OVER (PARTITION BY symbol ORDER BY price) AS row_num
FROM trades
WHERE timestamp > dateadd('d', -1, now())
ORDER BY row_num ASC;
```

OVER(PARTITION BY symbol ORDER BY price)
AS row_num
FROM trades
WHERE timestamp > dateadd('d', -1, now())
ORDER BY row_num ASC;
```

| symbol  | side | price | amount     | row_num |
| :------ | :--- | :---- | :--------- | :------ |

> | BTC-USD | Sell | 18659 | 0.10904633 | 0       |

Reviewer: This sample output doesn't look correct as row numbers start with 1, not 0. Also, it would be nice to change `price` values between the first and the second row within each partition, so that it's more obvious that OVER(ORDER BY) impacts the row numbers.
